# Prediction-of-Natural-Disasters-using-ML-AI-etc.
Good predictions and warnings save lives. We will build a solution to help cities better predict and prepare for natural disasters.
Artificial Intelligence and machine learning can help predict and respond to large-scale disasters like earthquake, flood and landslides. Together, they can turn into a life-saving tool during emergency and support disaster management efforts. Robots, sensors and drones based on AI and machine learning can become a relevant prototype providing accurate information during a catastrophe. In fact, several relief agencies and governments  can also use these smart analytics tools to deal with adverse situations and coordinate efficiently during disaster relief program.

Here we will use the knowledge of Machine Learning by first training the model using various features like for example-In Earthquake
its main feature by which we can determine where and by how much intensity it will occur is seismic waves.It occurs due to sudden release of 
energy in the Earth's Lithosphere.So we will gather data of this energy from previous years and train our model and can use it to predict where the
next earthquake will occur.

AI based warning system can drastically improve the way we predict earthquakes. By installing sensors in buildings and nearby areas, we can detect P-waves and warn citizens in advance.AI based warning system is based on relevant data that is installed on the computers, which in turn provide theories and models. Here, information is installed about the quality of material used for home construction, when they were built and what are the possibilities of them collapsing once earthquake hits. We can also feed data about the surrounding environment that whether the area lies in seismic zone or not, about elevation, quality of soil and the amount of humidity.

Furthermore, we can update our system with relevant data about traffic in the quake-zone area, total number of ambulances, hospitals, fire departments etc. Eventually, the computer will give information about the danger zone in advance and the number of casualties we can expect in that area. Computers will also provide theories and models with the help of machine learning technology. It uses algorithm to define the pattern and possibility of earthquakes and regularly comes up with new models.Since, the communication system is completely disrupted during a disaster as a result, it becomes a challenging task to send help to the needy at right time. Here, AI based sensors can be used to help locate the victims.
